We will briefly, look at,
how, radio and television and
the entertainment industry,
got enabled by, the, internet.
I would like to got back to the, internet
protocol diagram that I showed you.
And the idea here is the destination
address that we had before.
Certain number of destination addresses,
this is a 32-bit or
a 4-byte feed,
some of them are reserved for unicast.
That is, between one sender and
one receiver.
This is the peer to peer, communication.
And some of them are reserved for
broadcast.
So if you use the address 255.255.255.255.
Look at the full byte information.
Each byte can go from zero to 255.
And when it's all ones, that's 255.
And that address is used for
local broadcast.
So one guy sends it only once,
and everybody on that local
network would receive that.
[COUGH] Similarly for multicast networks,
the example would be Twitter or WhatsApp.
You would have a certain number of
people who subscribe to your group and
the message will go from one sender to
a group of multiple interested receivers.
So I think you should realize
here that the broadcast and
multicast services makes
sense only with UTP or IP.
So with respect to [INAUDIBLE] and
other things you
need to have the higher
layers taking care of things.
One of the implications in the multimedia
broadcast is if you have
different types of media
that are coming to the receiver and
that you need to synchronize them.
Like video for instance.
One-way video latency, you would like it
to be about 200,
250 milliseconds to match the TV
experience, and for
most of the times on the internet.
The payload size for
voice traffic, or audio traffic.
Is much smaller than the video traffic.
So, just by the sheer amounts of data,
video would get there much later.
But if you think about it,
how we have evolved, the light travels
much faster from a distant region,
like lightning.
And you'll see, sound coming much later.
So we're kind of used to that.
And, when we see audio lagging video,
it seems natural.
But if video lacks.
Or audio that's extremely unnatural.
So there's some tolerances,
guidelines that you can use based on
perceptual studies that people have done.
And also in lip reading and
developing hearing aids.
So the video can lead.
Audio by both 140 milliseconds,
but it can lag only by 80 milliseconds
before you start seeing this disparity.
You want them to feel that.
These two data streams that you
are presenting are part of one event.
The similar thing is for
if you're [INAUDIBLE] video games,
or to be played over the network.
If you have, let's say, a car crash, and
you would like to play a sound, and
you would also like to make a rumble.
In your joystick.
If that skew between these
two events is plus or
minus 25 milliseconds,
you will see them as two different events.
Unfortunately as people get older
this is more like 50 milliseconds but
for young adults.
That's about the rate,
that you would want to keep, so,
keeping all kinds of multi-media,
or the internet.
Not just voice, not just, videos and
the reliable services like text,
webpages, so,
the Internet has made all of these things
very seamlessly possible for
all kinds of data.
And because of this, the.
You see a lot of traditional broadcast
giants being replaced by
some of the newcomers.
For video services you have Netflix,
Amazon Prime, and
you can just attach a small device
like Roku and get video services.
Similarly for audio and
radio services, you see all
kinds of new players coming up.
So, because the internet
has enabled all of this,
you have a lot of newcomers coming in the
field, and lots of shifting landscapes.
And this is one of the nice things
about the internet of things.
You will see many, many more such shifts
happening right in front of our eyes.